Group 3 Online Discussion 1 - Trader Joe’s Value Chain

 

Nourhan Hassanin Fares Ebrahim (2120880)

Runsi Wang (2127375)

Weiwei Hu (2306404)

Xiao Lei (2309297)

Ye Bi (2318000)

University Canada West

CMPT 641: Digital Transformation

Amirhossein Zaji

August 12, 2024

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Trader Joe’s Value Chain

Trader Joe's value chain has been carefully designed to help Trader Joe's achieve its unique market position.

Inbound Logistics

Trader Joe's emphasizes efficient logistics to ensure its stores are stocked with quality products. Trader Joe's Inbounds many of items directly, which maintains quality and lowers prices by eliminating the middleman (Billington & Nie, 2009).

Operations

Store operations: Trader Joe's has a few numbers of SKUs (approximately 4,000, compared to the corporate average of 30,000-50,000 SKUs) (Grewal, Krishnan, Levy, & Munger, 2010). This simplified option allows for efficient inventory turnover and reduces operational complexity.

Focus on in-store enjoyment: The company emphasizes a completely unique in-store experience, a well-designed layout and a welcoming ecosystem.

Outbound Logistics
Distribution efficiency: Trader Joe's uses centralization to ship goods from suppliers to its stores. This model ensures that goods are always available and clean.

Inventory management: Simplifying SKUs helps streamline inventory operations, thereby reducing issues of out-of-stock and overstock.

Marketing & Sales
Trader Joe's relies mostly on word of mouth rather than traditional marketing; Trader Joe's does not offer discounts or loyalty programs, but instead, it features reduced day-to-day costs. This strategy reinforces its commitment to offering customers prices rather than the gimmicks typically used by retail businesses.

Services
Customer service: The company's employees are friendly, helpful and dedicated to customers from the heart. Create a positive shopping experience.

Company’s Infrastructure
Organized form: Trader Joe's is loosely organized, and managers have a lot of autonomy to follow the conditions of nearby markets. This flexibility can maintain constant brand value, even if the store is allowed to meet the precise needs of the community (Ebster & Khalil, n.d.).

Human Resource Management

Employee Education: Trader Joe's is known for its employee-friendly rules and regulations, competitive salaries, advantages, and possibilities for growth. Companies train their employees to be happy, helpful and engaged.

Technology Development
While Trader Joe's has a traditional way of doing business, it has begun to adopt additional technology, especially in areas such as inventory management and customer support, to boost performance and improve the shopping experience.

Trader Joe's sourcing techniques emphasize sustainability and ethics, ensuring that products meet the company's over-satisfaction standards and social obligations (Kim, Lim, Reilly, & Williamson, 2011).

Behavior Analysis Technology

Trader Joe's wants its employees to work in a relaxed environment. However, sometimes the safety operation of production is very serious, and our team wants to introduce behavior analysis technology to protect the production safety of employees. Behavioral Analysis The impact of video surveillance on Trader Joe's value chain. The decision to implement video surveillance technology along the Trader Joe's value chain, to optimize workplace protection (Cristani, Raghavendra, Del Bue, & Murino, 2013).



Human Resource Management

Enhanced safety and compliance: Trader Joe's takes the personal safety of its employees very seriously (Sinha, Subramanian, Bhattacharya, & Chaudhary, 2012). Video can detect dangerous behavior in real time, correct actions on the spot, and conduct thorough incident analysis.

Operations

By reducing production accidents, Trader Joe's can maintain a stable workforce, and fewer injuries mean less downtime, less medical expenses, and less legal liability, all of which contribute to cost savings.

Technology Development
Behavioral analysis video provides valuable facts that can be used to enhance conservation education programs. Instead of relying entirely on theoretical guidance, Trader Joe's can use real-life lenses to illustrate best practices and safety incidents, making education more effective and engaging for employees (Cristani et al., 2013).

Company’s Infrastructure
The initial funding for video includes costs for cameras, storage, and integration with existing structures.

Additional Margin on The Project

Installing video equipment in all stores and warehouses may be expensive. A Behavior analysis camera can value anywhere from $500 to $1,500.

If video surveillance can lessen work-associated accidents via 10%, it is able to keep a lot of money. For example, if Trader Joe's spends $10 million a year on work-related accidents and related prices, a 10% reduction should probably keep $1 million.

By reducing accidents and strengthening employee safety, employees may have additional productivity, ensuing in a predicted 2-3% increase in productivity. For a commercial enterprise with $16.5 billion in sales (Eich & Eich, 2024), even a 2% boom in productivity can generate $33 million in sales.

Considering the costs of implementation and Increased productiveness, the ROI of Behavior analysis camera may be enormous. If the whole implementation prices $10 million and the projected annual savings in productivity earnings are $34 million, the return on money will be well.

 

 

 

 

References

Billington, C., & Nie, W. (2009). The customer value proposition should drive supply chain design: An example in mass retailing.  Perspectives for Managers, (177), 1.

Cristani, M., Raghavendra, R., Del Bue, A., & Murino, V. (2013). Human behavior analysis in video surveillance: A social signal processing perspective. Neurocomputing, 100, 86-97.

Eich, R., & Eich, J. T. C. (2024). The Trader Joe’s way (to success). The Journal of Values-Based Leadership, 17(1), 19.

Ebster, C., & Khalil, R. (n.d.). Trader Joe’s–An experiential discount retailer conquers the culinary seas.

Grewal, D., Krishnan, R., Levy, M., & Munger, J. (2010). Retail success and key drivers. In Retailing in the 21st century: Current and future trends (pp. 15-30).

Kim, D., Lim, P., Reilly, J., & Williamson, J. (2011). Trader Joe’s outpost marketing proposal.

Sinha, V., Subramanian, K. S., Bhattacharya, S., & Chaudhary, K. (2012). The contemporary framework on social media analytics as an emerging tool for behavior informatics, HR analytics, and business process. Management: Journal of Contemporary Management Issues, 17(2), 65-84.