Trader Joe’s Value Chain

 

Group Discussion 01

Group 01

Oyekunle Violet Desalu (2300390)

Rahman Sadakat (2202867)

Rafsan Khan Eusuf Zai (2221854)

Sonu Khanal (2238363)

University Canada West

CMPT 641: Digital Transformation (Summer 2024-17)

Dr. Amirhossein Zaji

August 11, 2024

  

 

 

Introduction

In 19667, famous specialty grocery store retailer trader Joe’s was formed. It has been characterized by its unique operational efficiency and customer satisfaction. The in-store experience, well thought out products and great service keep that business enormously popular with customers. There are many challenges they have to face regarding managing the e-commerce platform, other digital marketing, real time customer service to remain competitive in the market. As consumers continue to adopt new change and digital transformation so Trader Joe’s should do the same. There are some major segmentations of Potter’s value chain; inbound logistics, operations, marketing, integrate more sophisticated technologies, after sales service, etc. This research essay will suggest adopting e-commerce solutions, digital marketing strategies, Ai-driven customer support and feedback to fix existing gaps and provide quick wins. Through the integration of secure payment system, online advertising based on target market & new customer service will Trader Joe’s be better positioned in the market demand. This will significantly improve the existing operational efficiency and customer feedbacks through interaction for long term success.

Trader Joe’s Company Value Chain

Trader Joe’s current value chain is divided into two major parts: primary and support activities. Primary activity includes inbound logistics, operations, outbound logistics, marketing/sales, and after-sales service. Support activity includes company infrastructure, human resources, technology department, and procurement. 

Primary Activities

 Trader Joe’s inbound logistics involves sourcing products from suppliers, maintaining supplier relations, product inventory, and replenishment. Efficient store layout and providing a positive customer experience is a part of its operational activity. A centralized distribution model, product distribution to stores, and inventory management are the key activities that fall under outbound logistics. Trader Joe's has a unique marketing technique, word-of-mouth, and a customer-centric approach that differentiates them from competitors (Burke, 2024). Customer-centric return policy and support are their forte, and they help them retain customers.

Support Activities

Trader Joe's has a solid organizational culture and brand identity that differentiates it from its competitors. It follows a decentralized decision-making process, which speeds up work. Competitive wages/salaries, benefits, and career growth reduce employee turnover and dissatisfaction. The company also provides employees with developmental support to make them more engaged and focused, as it believes a happy employee means a happy customer (Burke, 2024). Trader Joe's uses solutions to optimize inventory and store operations. The tracking system in POS machines fetches customer buying patterns used as targeted marketing. Procurement is about supplier relations, sustainable and ethical sourcing, and adhering to labor, product, and environmental laws. 

Figure 1

A diagram of a companyDescription automatically generatedTrader Joe’s Value Chain

Note. The author developed Trader Joe’s current value chain based on research.

Business Gaps in Trader Joe’s

E-commerce/ordering service/delivery service.
Online/social media marketing.
Real-time online customer service.
Proposed Application of Technology to Trader Joe’s Value Chain

Outbound Logistics

Creating a secure payment e-commerce platform on its website with an online ordering service can attract more customers and increase sales for Trader Joe’s. (stripe.com, 2023). Although the company does not run a delivery service, it can partner with Uber Eats to deliver online orders to customers. (Tardi, 2024).

Marketing/Sales

Trader Joe’s does not do “traditional marketing”. (Tardi, 2024). However, it can reach a wider audience through digital marketing campaigns where customers take their favorite Trader Joe’s in-store images and experiences to post on their respective social/new media handles. Customers can be incentivized to engage in the promotion, and AI algorithms can be deployed to monitor the efficacy of the promotion.

Service

AI assistants can be deployed on the e-commerce platform to create an excellent customer service experience.

 

 

 

 

Proposed new diagram

A screenshot of a computerDescription automatically generated

The reason behind choosing the new value chain

Integrating e-commerce, online marketing, and real-time customer service into Trader Joe's value chain closes significant business gaps and aligns the company with shifting consumer preferences. In this respect, a secure e-commerce platform can be integrated for online order placement to increase the convenience of customers and expand its base, both extremely crucial steps in today's digital landscape. This is certainly offset by partnering with delivery services like Uber Eats so that customers can get their favorite products without a visit to the store. Also, with AI-driven social media marketing, brand visibility and customer engagement are hugely maximized to keep up in today's competitive market. Finally, AI assistants implemented within the e-commerce platform improve customer service to ensure a smooth shopping experience that might influence customer loyalty and retention. These strategic applications of technology drive not just modernization at Trader Joe's; they also better place it in line to grab new market opportunities.

 

Calculation

Margin= (Total value created by a company's activities-Cost of performing the activities)
Increased sales generated from the secured payment e-commerce site & app - the cost of building the app/site = margin.
The sales revenue generated from increased market share - the cost of AI algorithms and incentives given to customers to run the digital campaign = margin.
The value derived from customer retention online - the cost of online AI assistants = margin.
Estimated Calculations

 Increased Sales Value from e-commerce
Projected increased sales: $30 million per year (Assumptions)

Platform building and maintenance cost: $5 million.

Margin = (increased Sales - Platform Building cost)

Margin=$30 million-$5 million=$25 million

Increased sales return value from Digital Marketing
Projected increase in sales: $15 million per annum.

The cost of AI algorithms and incentives: $2 million

Margin=$15 million−$2 million=$13 million

E-Commerce Platform:
Estimated Increased Revenue from Retained Customers: $10 million annually due to improved customer service.

Cost of Implementing AI Assistants: $3 million.

Margin=Increased Revenue from Retained Customers−Cost of AI Assistants

Margin=$10 million−$3 million=$7 million

                                                      Conclusion
        After the margin is calculated, the new proposed value chain seems to have a significant impact with a differentiated positioning in the market for Trader Joe’s. It contributed the operational success and better consumer feedback than before. Still the company needs to fill up some possible gaps regarding e-commerce, digital marketing, real time customer support to remain competitive to grow in the business. Improvement of technologies can help this company to adopt new proposed value chain  with an addition to secure e-commerce system, Ai- driven digital marketing initiatives and simultaneous consumer feedback to the system. All these will fix existing gaps and will create quick wins. It will also smoothen the operation process with higher customer satisfaction. All the strategic investments have already seen to increase in sales and customer loyalty. The digital transformation of Trader Joe’s will resolve existing problems and become a competitive body in the market with the new proposed value chain.

References

Burke, L. (2024, March 20). Trader Joe’s Value Chain Analysis: [Essay Example], 721 words. GradesFixer. https://gradesfixer.com/free-essay-examples/trader-joes-value-chain-analysis/

stripe.com (2023, September 28). Secure payment systems explained: Nine components every business should know. https://stripe.com/en-ca/resources/more/secure-payment-systems-explained

Tardi, C. (2024, July 30). Value Chain: Definition, Model, Analysis, and Example. https://www.investopedia.com/terms/v/valuechain.asp