Retail Industry and the Shaping of Digital Transformation: Part of AI & ML

 

Group Discussion 02

Group 01

Oyekunle Violet Desalu (2300390)

Rahman Sadakat (2202867)

Rafsan Khan Eusuf Zai (2221854)

Sonu Khanal (2238363)


University Canada West

CMPT 641: Digital Transformation (Summer 2024-17)

Dr. Amirhossein Zaji

August 29, 2024

 

 

 

 

 

Introduction

The retail industry is constantly changing through the aid of AI and ML. Across the industry, using AI & ML creates value by developing customer experience through monotonous feedback, product recommendations, and chatbots. Not only the consumer side but also the accurate demand forecasting, managing supply chain logistics, AI & ML optimizes all the inventory. Through this, the retail industry can also focus on digital advertisements, dynamic pricing, membership card services, etc. All the data-driven decision-making for this business industry brings high-value insights, making specific strategies for the future. In this research essay, we will discuss the effectiveness of AI & ML in the retail industry by considering the expected consumer expectations, gaining competitive advantage, and more.

AI & ML: an Overview

The retail industry, e-commerce to be exact, is constantly evolving digitally through AI and Machine Learning (ML). Retailers are now more engaged with their customers as AI and ML analyze buying patterns and share personalized shopping experiences. Merchants can forecast sales and manage inventory via predictive analytics, resulting in timely product stocking and inventory optimization. E-commerce platforms are using AI-powered chatbots to enrich customer experience, also gathering live feedback to improve sales and product quality. Detection and prevention of fraudulent activities are done by ML algorithms, which analyze transaction anomalies and block out the flagged transactions in real-time. This enhances the security and customer experience, resulting in business stability. These digital transformations (recommendation systems, forecasting, and so on) are backed up by AI and ML, developing an innovation-friendly, customer-centric, and sustainable retail industry.

Retail Industry and AI

AI has driven growth and created innovative experiences for the industry’s stakeholders. Below are some of the areas through which AI is developing the Retail industry:

Customer Service

The use of AI has enabled customers to shop from different touchpoints that are convenient for them with e-commerce. They have been able to enjoy personalized support through virtual assistants and chatbots. (World Economic Forum, 2023).

Cost Reduction

AI’s ability to streamline and automate processes to free employees of routine tasks has resulted in the efficiency of those processes and enabled staff members to focus on other aspects of business development. (World Economic Forum, 2023).

Supply Chain Management

Retail’s use of AI enables data analytics to provide insight into stock level and inventory management. (www.forbes.com, 2024).

Machine Learning in Retail Industry

Machine learning uproots retail to enable businesses to tap into this technology for data-driven insights in making vital decisions and offering customers better experiences. ML algorithms in retail analyze an enormous volume of data, such as customer behavior, sales trends, and inventory levels, to predict demand, personalize marketing efforts, or optimize price strategies (Turkmen, 2022). For instance, ML models can predict future sales by analyzing data from previous years, thereby guiding retailers to manage their stock effectively to avoid running stockouts or overstocking.

In addition, ML enables superior customer experiences through personalized recommendations, explaining and targeting each individual's preferences based on previous purchases and browsing history. Using ML, retailers can also segment customers, pinpoint high-value shoppers, and direct their promotions toward particular demographics. More significantly, chatbots and virtual assistants powered by ML enhance customer service and respond to queries in real-time (Weber & Schutte, 2019). The automation of these procedures improves customer satisfaction and loyalty while also bringing about several efficiencies for retailers. In general, machine learning is a vital tool for any retailer hoping to stay competitive in today's dynamic market.

Conclusion

From the satisfied consumer’s experience and overall ease and transparency, the use of AI & ML in the retail industry has brought a significant digital transformation. AI & ML help upgrade customer service to a whole new level; they also bring personalized recommendations and effective inventory control. Even fraud detection is much more advanced in the retail industry than before. Through this research essay, we believe in the future, these services will be more seamless and will expand further with more opportunities and easiness.

References

Spencer, A. (2024, April 19). Artificial Intelligence In Retail: 6 Use Cases And Examples. https://www.forbes.com/sites/sap/2024/04/19/artificial-intelligence-in-retail-6-use-cases-and-examples/

 

Turkmen, B. (2022). Customer Segmentation with machine learning for the online retail industry. The European Journal of Social & Behavioral Sciences. https://www.europeanpublisher.com/en/article/10.15405/ejsbs.316

 

Weber, F., & Schütte, R. (2019). A domain-oriented analysis of the impact of machine learning—the case of retailing. Big Data and Cognitive Computing, 3(1), 11. https://www.mdpi.com/2504-2289/3/1/11

 

Yili, W. (2023, January 6). Here's how artificial intelligence can benefit the retail sector. https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2023/01/here-s-how-artificial-intelligence-benefit-retail-sector-davos2023/#:~:text=Artificial%20intelligence%20can%20support%20retail,chains%20and%20increase%20customer%20satisfaction.