Individual Online Discussion 4

Blockchain In Healthcare

Mohammed Sameer Ahmed (2319905)

University Canada West

CMPT 641: Digital Transformation (HBD-SUMMER24-17)

Dr. Amirhossein Zaji

Sep 12, 2024

 

  

Introduction

Blockchain technology that was first used in the facilitation of transaction in cryptocurrency like bitcoin has been useful in other industries for instance in the health sector. Its decentralization and openness provide tremendous possibilities for disrupting how medical info is stored and used. Blockchain was discovered as having great potential to increase the security of data while at the same time working on the issue of data sharing between the decentralized system in healthcare and patient-centered care. However, this technology as much as it holds a lot of potential has several drawbacks about scalability, legal issues, and use cases within the healthcare landscape.

Applications of Blockchain in Healthcare

Blockchain's key healthcare applications include:

Electronic Health Records (EHRs): The solution also gives the patient full control of his/her health information and allows the exchange between health care providers to be safe and efficient.
Mobile Health & Remote Monitoring: Blockchain assists in the storage and management of biomedical data that will be sourced from remote health devices for real-time access and security.
Health Insurance Claims: verification and compensation activities are done automatically through smart contracts in blockchain to reduce on fraud and increase on efficiency (Zeeve, 2024).
Clinical Trials: Blockchain brings flexibility to unlock different locks of data, through which clinical trials can be managed and monitored effectively.
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain: Blockchain enhances the supply chain provenance and thus reduces on entry of fake drugs into the market.
Benefits of Blockchain in Healthcare

Enhanced Data Security: Blockchain does not have a single entry point that can be targeted by cybercriminals which helps protect the health data (Haleem, et. al., 2021).
Interoperability: Blockchain affords an enhanced method in which institutions can safely and effectively share data to enhance the healthcare sector.
Traceability: Real-time information updates in the chain of pharmaceutical products avoid cases of fraud.
Automated Record-Keeping: Smart contracts can enhance and expedite the generation of medical records while reducing human error or occupation of experts for the same (Zeeve, 2024).
Fraud Reduction: Blockchain can mitigate health care fraud and abuse since the records on the blockchain can improve data transparency.
The Guide Of Blockchain In Healthcare

(Source: Zeeve, 2024)

Obstacles

Scalability: Some of these systems are challenged with scalability in terms of handling the number of transactions which is an important aspect in healthcare due to the vast data that it deals with.
Regulatory Compliance: The implementation of blockchain systems in healthcare comes up with challenges in meeting the healthcare regulations for data privacy such as HIPAA in the USA or GDPR in the European Union (Haleem, et. al., 2021).
High Implementation Costs: Adapting and incorporating blockchain into the current structures of the healthcare sector involves costs that may not be easily affordable by the current small-scale developed providers.
Technical Expertise: The use of blockchain requires some expertise and understanding, and there are still many healthcare organizations that do not have the right talent and technical support.
Conclusion

Based on the results, blockchain has potential use cases in the healthcare field, especially in enhancing information sharing, openness, and patient-centredness. These include application in EHR management, medicine supply chain, and clinical trials hence improving the healthcare processes. However, there are issues like scalability, regulatory issues, and high implementation cost which is a major drawback before blockchain can be implemented to be a solution in health care. It entails that the advancement of technology as well as overcoming these hurdles will lead to the radical change of the healthcare system for the better.

 

 

References

Zeeve, (2024). About Blockchain in Healthcare. [Online]. Zeeve. Available at: https://www.zeeve.io/blog/blockchain-in-healthcare/. [Accessed on: 6th September 2024].

Haleem, A., Javaid, M., Singh, R. P., Suman, R., & Rab, S. (2021). Blockchain technology applications in healthcare: An overview. International Journal of Intelligent Networks, 2, 130-139. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S266660302100021X