Individual Online Discussion 4-BlockChain

Haoran Xu (2317218)

University Canada West

CMPT 641: Digital Transformation (HBD-SUMMER24-17)

Amirhossein Zaji

September 13rd, 2024

Introduction

After 4.0 evolution, people start to use a lot of new technologies including the “popular” one-Blockchain. It has been used in several industries such as supply chain management, healthcare and education. In this discussion, I will talk about the applications, benefits and possible challenges people might face of blockchain in supply chain management.

Applications, Benefits and Challenges

In supply chain management, we mostly need to deal with complex data, they are huge data volumes, and we also need to update some important data for us to track in real time. Blockchain can make the supply chain management more efficient and transparent. In my research, Walmart and IBM Food Trust are working together to use supply chains to track the source of foods. Through blockchain, Walmart can track products from different suppliers at the same time. (Sristy, 2021) In this example, blockchain has the advantages of being tamper-proof, easy to build trust and high transparency between users. Walmart can better provide consumers with information on the source of food. Even if food safety issues occur, they can be handled quickly and accurately, which is impossible with other methods. (Hyperledger, n.d.) And as we mentioned in class, blockchain can also help the diamond industry track the source of their diamonds and mark information. No matter how a "diamond" circulates and who it passes through, it is always "that diamond" and the information cannot be tampered with. (Because it is almost impossible to change the node information of all users at the same time). This greatly helps diamond merchants and customers build trust through high transparency (because all relevant users can access the records), rather than taking years to build trust in the past. However, we also need to pay attention to some challenges faced by applying blockchain. For example, high initial costs, high technological thresholds and our current lack of relevant legal and regulatory systems for the supply chain. High technological thresholds and high initial costs will cause a small business to face difficulties because they have just started. Large companies also need to apply blockchain through employee training. At the same time, the company will also face some legal charges.

Conclusion

In general, blockchain is a beneficial technology for us, and more and more industries are finding ways to use it. It can bring benefits such as high security and high transparency to transactions; however, we cannot ignore its high threshold and possible challenges such as legal charges.

 

Reference

Hyperledger. (n.d.). How Walmart brought unprecedented transparency to the food supply chain with Hyperledger Fabric.

Sristy, A. (2021). Blockchain in the food supply chain - What does the future look like? U.S. Omni Tech. Retrieved from https://tech.walmart.com/content/walmart-global-tech/en_us/blog/post/blockchain-in-the-food-supply-chain.html