Discussion Forum 4

Runsi Wang 2319590

University Canada West

CMPT 641: Digital Transformation

Amirhossein Zaji

12 SEPTEMBER 2024

Application of blockchain in real estate

Intermediaries, brokers, attorneys, and government bodies make purchasing and selling properties complex. Blockchain makes transactions more transparent, safer, and efficient. Blockchain uses smart contracts, which greatly simplifies the transaction process(Saberi et al., 2019). Smart contracts can automatically execute and verify the terms in real estate transactions. When all terms are met, they can be automatically executed, reducing dependence on intermediaries and speeding up the process. Blockchain can also improve property management. In some countries, land registration occasionally suffers from false or human errors. Blockchain can set the registration form to be unchangeable, and all property records cannot be changed once they enter the system, which improves security and transparency.

Advantages

Blockchain has played a lot of promoting roles in the real estate industry. It increases the transparency of the transaction process, and all transaction details are recorded in the system. Both parties can view it, understand the real-time situation of the transaction, and reduce the risks in buying and selling. Blockchain can also reduce everyone's dependence on intermediaries and reduce the cost of transactions. And this cost reduction can promote more people to enter the real estate investment market. The application of blockchain also improves data security and reduces the risk of data forgery and ownership disputes. The simplification of real estate processes increases liquidity in the real estate market, because blockchain real estate assets can be marked as digital shares for sale, which makes it easier for investors and makes investment more frequent. And this method allows some people who do not have the resources to buy a whole property to have the opportunity to invest in the real estate industry.

Obstacles

Although blockchain has greatly promoted the real estate industry, it also contains many challenges(Swan, 2015). For example, there is uncertainty in regulation. Blockchain technology raises legal difficulties, particularly about smart contract validity and enforceability, in the highly regulated real estate business. Governments and regulators must adapt the framework to blockchain transactions, which will take time. New technologies are slow to embrace in real estate.The implementation of blockchain systems requires technical support, but most real estate professionals do not have the relevant capabilities. However, the application of blockchain in the real estate industry is currently in its infancy, and now a large amount of technology investment and training is urgently needed. Data privacy is also a huge challenge. Blockchain increases the transparency of real estate transactions, but it also comes with some problems. If system records are not managed properly, information can be easily leaked. How to manage and protect information in the system is a key challenge.

Conclusion

Blockchain has sped up and secured real estate transactions, but numerous issues remain. We still have many issues and must fully use blockchain.  In terms of supervision and data privacy, we must be cautious. Efforts to develop blockchain applications and successfully integrate blockchain with the real estate industry are future goals.

Reference

Saberi, S., Kouhizadeh, M., Sarkis, J., & Shen, L. (2019). Blockchain technology and its relationships to sustainable supply chain management. International Journal of Production Research, 57(7), 2117-2135.

https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2018.1533261

Swan, M. (2015). Blockchain: Blueprint for a new economy. O'Reilly Media.